>> Steve Kinney: And so
you can create a few of these and
we'll actually kinda make this a little
bit more generalizable in a second,
a few of these and get lots and
lots of stuff for free.
In the same way we were taking
the existing schemas and
building on top of them, we can
create a few of these middleware and
make it a little bit better.
I can even make this one better, right?
Which is right now this assumes
just this create task schema.
What if I wanted to make it generalizable?
What if I wanted to say, hey,
I want a middleware where I'll
give you a schema and
you make sure that it works, and
I just use that thing all over the place,
right?
So we can do that as well, right?
Who wants to get stressed out for
a moment, you do?
Okay, we got multiple who
want to get stressed out.
Remember when you were first
learning JavaScript and
you saw currying functions and
some functional programming nerd said,
this is the best thing ever,
and you're like,
I don't understand what any of that is,
when am I going to need it?
Right now.
[LAUGH] All right,
short version.
Occurring function is just a function
that returns another function, right?
And as a way, I'm gonna give you
some of the arguments now and
the rest of them later, right?
Which is a great way for,
again, making factories.
I got one Rubeus in the room,
so I knew that word would work.
You're nodding, I said factory.
It's a way to create a function
that will make more functions with
some of the arguments already applied.
So instead of having one where
we validate the request body
with a hard coded in-schema,
what I would like to do is first,
I will give you the schema, and
then you fill in this spot for me, right?
And for being very confusing,
it is luckily, somewhat easy to
implement with our functions.
So I'm gonna get rid of the type stuff for
one second, just cuz it's in the way.
I cut it though and we'll see.
Which is to say, give me some.
>> Steve Kinney: Kinda schema.
>> Steve Kinney: And then I will return
a function to you that will then be
the rest of this, right?
So then we will be able
to say something like,
we'll call this validateBody instead,
right?
Where now we can say validateBody
with a CreateTaskSchema, right?
And that will do one where this
part is filled in with the create
task schema, right?
Then later, I wanna make a validate
body with Create User schema,
same code, you just pass in
a different schema, right?
And I will show you the natural
conclusion of where you can take this,
I will not make you watch me type it,
cuz I did it, and I was gonna do it live,
and I realize that nobody
wants to watch that.
It's not compelling entertainment,
so I'll show you,
be like one of the natural conclusions
in which you can take in a second.
But let's get the conceptual part down.
So now we can have the ability to
validate bodies whenever we want.
What we need to do is to
say we do need a generic,
I'm sorry, and that's going to be.
>> Steve Kinney: I think that
schema is what I needed,
some Zod schema that is evaluating
something being of a given type, right?
So if we look at,
I moved all my things out.
Task schema is really a the type of it is
a Zod schema that matches a task, right?
So we're saying don't worry about it.
It'll become clear.
So we're gonna pass that in and
then what we are going to do is then have
a function that should
give us that request
handler that we had before, cool.
So that is going to give me paste
that code back in and of the same type.
Okay, that stresses you out, I'm sorry.
But watch what you can do cuz you write
that code once, you get it working,
we'll deal with that squiggly in a second.
But now I can do.
>> Steve Kinney: Everything works, but
now I never have to write that middleware
again, cuz it will validate the body
on any schema that I want, right?
And so theoretically, again,
you build up these reusable tools.
Yeah, it's gonna take your morning, right?
But then theoretically,
now you can make large,
sweeping changes to the types very easily.
In your code base, you change the schema,
everything that uses this one will then
validate the body, so
anything that uses this middleware.
And like in Express,
you can say all of these sub paths
should already do that, right?
And have it cascade down, and
get a lot of this for free.
If that stresses you out, you're like,
my app's not that big, I just wanna go
manually do the parsing, you will
still get the same benefit, right?
This is now we're getting to the point of,
how do we do this on larger, and larger,
and larger code bases, right?
But sometimes you can do this to just the
place in your code base that has the most
pain, and that will get you there, right?
And so you could theoretically make
one of these for validate body,
validate query params, and
validate the path params.
And you can make this,
they don't expose the types and
it's really big pain in the ass.
I have a bunch of tricks if you're
interested that I will show you.
But for now, I'm just gonna do this,
which is be an object that can't be null,
is all I'm saying here.
I don't care what you are,
I don't know anything about it.
Just be an object that's not null.